README.md, before:

# AI Powered Help Desk

This project is a simple Node.js/Express application that demonstrates how an AI driven help desk might work with n8n integration.

For the long-term roadmap, see [docs/DEVELOPMENT_PLAN.md](docs/DEVELOPMENT_PLAN.md).

## Features

- **Dashboard** route that greets the logged in user and summarizes their assigned tickets.
- **Ticket management API** for creating, updating and commenting on tickets. Ticket history records status, assignee, priority and due date changes.
- **Asset management API** for tracking staff equipment.
- **AI endpoint** that forwards natural language text to an n8n workflow for processing.
- Mock data for users, tickets and assets to simulate a database.
- **Qdrant client script** for indexing ticket text in a vector database.
- **Automatic Qdrant indexing** of newly created tickets when the server is running.
- **Ticket escalation endpoint** for quickly setting priority to high.
- **Offline-capable UI** using a service worker and web app manifest.

- **Real-time updates** via a Server-Sent Events endpoint.

- **Stats dashboard** showing ticket counts, mean resolution time and a 7-day ticket forecast.


### API Endpoints
- `GET /health` – simple health check returning `{status:"ok"}`.

- `GET /dashboard` – show a summary of tickets assigned to the current user.
  - `GET /tickets` – list all tickets.
    You can filter by status, priority, tag, assignee or submitter using query parameters, e.g.
    `GET /tickets?status=open&priority=high&tag=urgent&assignee=1&submitter=2`.
    Results may also be sorted with `?sortBy=field&order=asc|desc`.
- `GET /tickets/:id` – view a specific ticket.
- `POST /tickets` – create a new ticket. Requires a `question` field in the body.
- `PATCH /tickets/:id` – update ticket status, assignee, priority or `dueDate`.
- `DELETE /tickets/:id` – remove a ticket completely.
- `POST /tickets/:id/reassign-least-busy` – automatically assign the ticket to the agent with the fewest open tickets.
- `POST /tickets/:id/assign/:userId` – assign the ticket to a specific user.
- `POST /tickets/:id/escalate` – set ticket priority to high.
- `POST /tickets/:id/close` – change ticket status to closed.
- `POST /tickets/:id/reopen` – reopen a closed ticket.
- `POST /tickets/:id/comments` – add a comment to a ticket.
- `PATCH /tickets/:id/comments/:commentId` – edit a comment's text.
- `GET /tickets/:id/comments/:commentId` – view a specific comment.
- `DELETE /tickets/:id/comments/:commentId` – remove a comment from a ticket.
- `GET /tickets/:id/attachments` – list attachments for a ticket.
- `POST /tickets/:id/attachments` – attach a file by providing `name` and `url`.
- `DELETE /tickets/:id/attachments/:attachmentId` – remove an attachment.
- `GET /tickets/:id/history` – view the change history of a ticket.
- `GET /tickets/:id/tags` – list tags for a ticket.
- `POST /tickets/:id/tags` – add a tag using `{tag:"example"}` or `{tags:[...]}`.
- `DELETE /tickets/:id/tags/:tag` – remove a tag from a ticket.
- `GET /tickets/search?q=text` – search tickets by question, comment or tag.
- `GET /tickets/overdue` – list tickets past their `dueDate`.
- `GET /tickets/due-soon?days=n` – list tickets due within the next `n` days (default 3).
- `GET /tickets/aging?days=n` – list open tickets created more than `n` days ago (default 7).
- `GET /tickets/recent?limit=n` – list the most recently created tickets (default 5).
- `GET /tickets/unassigned` – list tickets that have no assignee.
- `GET /events` – subscribe to real-time ticket events via Server-Sent Events.
- `GET /assets` – list all assets. Filter by tag with `?tag=value` or by assignee with `?assignedTo=userId`.
  Results may also be sorted with `?sortBy=field&order=asc|desc`.
- `POST /assets` – create a new asset with `name`, optional `assignedTo` and optional `tags` array. Creation is recorded in the asset's history.
- `GET /assets/:id` – view a specific asset.
- `GET /assets/:id/history` – view the creation, assignment and name change history of an asset.
- `GET /assets/assigned/:userId` – list assets assigned to a user.
- `GET /assets/unassigned` – list assets that are not assigned to anyone.
- `PATCH /assets/:id` – update asset `name` or `assignedTo`. Changes are logged in the asset's history.
- `DELETE /assets/:id` – remove an asset from inventory.
- `POST /assets/:id/depreciate` – mark an asset as depreciated.
- `GET /assets/depreciated` – list all depreciated assets.
- `POST /assets/:id/retire` – mark an asset as retired.
- `GET /assets/retired` – list all retired assets.
- `GET /assets/search?q=text` – search assets by name.
- `GET /assets/:id/maintenance` – view maintenance records for an asset.
- `POST /assets/:id/maintenance` – add a maintenance record with `description` and optional `cost`.
- `GET /assets/:id/maintenance/total-cost` – get the sum of all maintenance costs for an asset.
- `GET /assets/:id/maintenance/last` – get the most recent maintenance record for an asset.
- `GET /assets/:id/tags` – list tags for an asset.
- `POST /assets/:id/tags` – add one or more tags to an asset.
- `DELETE /assets/:id/tags/:tag` – remove a tag from an asset.
- `GET /stats` – basic counts of open, waiting and closed tickets plus asset total.
- `GET /stats/mttr` – average time to resolve closed tickets in hours.
- `GET /stats/workload` – ticket counts per user broken down by status.
- `GET /stats/priorities` – counts of tickets per priority.
- `GET /stats/tags` – counts of tickets per tag.
- `GET /stats/asset-tags` – counts of assets per tag.
- `GET /stats/assets-per-user` – counts of assets assigned to each user.
- `GET /stats/maintenance-cost` – total maintenance cost per asset.
- `GET /stats/comments` – number of comments per ticket.
- `GET /stats/overdue` – counts of overdue tickets per user.
- `GET /stats/forecast?days=N` – predicted ticket volume for the next N days.
- `GET /stats/dashboard` – aggregate counts, forecast and MTTR for the landing page.
- `GET /stats/user/:userId` – summary of ticket counts and assets for a user.

## Getting Started

1. Install dependencies (requires internet access):
   ```bash
   npm install
   ```
2. (Optional) build the TypeScript server:
   ```bash
   npm run build
   ```
3. Start the server:
   ```bash
   npm start
   ```
4. Run tests:
   ```bash
   npm test
   ```

### Database Setup

To migrate the sample data into a MSSQL database you can use the provided
migration script. Ensure your connection details are configured in a `.env`
file based on `.env.example` and run:

```bash
npm run migrate
```

This executes `migrate.js` which creates the tables defined in
`migrations/schema.sql` and populates them using `migrations/seed.sql`.

The Qdrant client script can be used separately to index ticket text. See
`docs/QDRANT_CLIENT.md` for details.

The n8n webhook URL can be configured via the `N8N_URL` environment variable.
The Qdrant server URL can be set with the `QDRANT_URL` environment variable.

After the first visit, the pages are cached for offline use via a service worker.
An experimental `realtime.html` page demonstrates live ticket notifications using the `/events` SSE endpoint.

### Authentication

Use `POST /auth/login` with `username` and `password` to obtain a JWT token.
Pass it using `Authorization: Bearer <token>` to `/auth/verify` to validate
the session.

### Frontend

A minimal React application is located in the `frontend` directory. Run
`npm install` and `npm run dev` from that folder to start it with Vite.
The landing page served from `public/index.html` now displays current ticket
counts, the average resolution time and a 7-day forecast fetched from the API.

### DevOps

A `Dockerfile` is provided for containerization and a GitHub Actions workflow
executes the test suite on each push.

## License

This project is licensed under the [MIT License](LICENSE).

Commit message:

Add MSSQL data service and optional DB support

README.md, after:

# AI Powered Help Desk

This project is a simple Node.js/Express application that demonstrates how an AI driven help desk might work with n8n integration.

For the long-term roadmap, see [docs/DEVELOPMENT_PLAN.md](docs/DEVELOPMENT_PLAN.md).

## Features

- **Dashboard** route that greets the logged in user and summarizes their assigned tickets.
- **Ticket management API** for creating, updating and commenting on tickets. Ticket history records status, assignee, priority and due date changes.
- **Asset management API** for tracking staff equipment.
- **AI endpoint** that forwards natural language text to an n8n workflow for processing.
- Mock data for users, tickets and assets to simulate a database.
- **Qdrant client script** for indexing ticket text in a vector database.
- **Automatic Qdrant indexing** of newly created tickets when the server is running.
- **Ticket escalation endpoint** for quickly setting priority to high.
- **Offline-capable UI** using a service worker and web app manifest.

- **Real-time updates** via a Server-Sent Events endpoint.

- **Stats dashboard** showing ticket counts, mean resolution time and a 7-day ticket forecast.


### API Endpoints
- `GET /health` – simple health check returning `{status:"ok"}`.

- `GET /dashboard` – show a summary of tickets assigned to the current user.
  - `GET /tickets` – list all tickets.
    You can filter by status, priority, tag, assignee or submitter using query parameters, e.g.
    `GET /tickets?status=open&priority=high&tag=urgent&assignee=1&submitter=2`.
    Results may also be sorted with `?sortBy=field&order=asc|desc`.
- `GET /tickets/:id` – view a specific ticket.
- `POST /tickets` – create a new ticket. Requires a `question` field in the body.
- `PATCH /tickets/:id` – update ticket status, assignee, priority or `dueDate`.
- `DELETE /tickets/:id` – remove a ticket completely.
- `POST /tickets/:id/reassign-least-busy` – automatically assign the ticket to the agent with the fewest open tickets.
- `POST /tickets/:id/assign/:userId` – assign the ticket to a specific user.
- `POST /tickets/:id/escalate` – set ticket priority to high.
- `POST /tickets/:id/close` – change ticket status to closed.
- `POST /tickets/:id/reopen` – reopen a closed ticket.
- `POST /tickets/:id/comments` – add a comment to a ticket.
- `PATCH /tickets/:id/comments/:commentId` – edit a comment's text.
- `GET /tickets/:id/comments/:commentId` – view a specific comment.
- `DELETE /tickets/:id/comments/:commentId` – remove a comment from a ticket.
- `GET /tickets/:id/attachments` – list attachments for a ticket.
- `POST /tickets/:id/attachments` – attach a file by providing `name` and `url`.
- `DELETE /tickets/:id/attachments/:attachmentId` – remove an attachment.
- `GET /tickets/:id/history` – view the change history of a ticket.
- `GET /tickets/:id/tags` – list tags for a ticket.
- `POST /tickets/:id/tags` – add a tag using `{tag:"example"}` or `{tags:[...]}`.
- `DELETE /tickets/:id/tags/:tag` – remove a tag from a ticket.
- `GET /tickets/search?q=text` – search tickets by question, comment or tag.
- `GET /tickets/overdue` – list tickets past their `dueDate`.
- `GET /tickets/due-soon?days=n` – list tickets due within the next `n` days (default 3).
- `GET /tickets/aging?days=n` – list open tickets created more than `n` days ago (default 7).
- `GET /tickets/recent?limit=n` – list the most recently created tickets (default 5).
- `GET /tickets/unassigned` – list tickets that have no assignee.
- `GET /events` – subscribe to real-time ticket events via Server-Sent Events.
- `GET /assets` – list all assets. Filter by tag with `?tag=value` or by assignee with `?assignedTo=userId`.
  Results may also be sorted with `?sortBy=field&order=asc|desc`.
- `POST /assets` – create a new asset with `name`, optional `assignedTo` and optional `tags` array. Creation is recorded in the asset's history.
- `GET /assets/:id` – view a specific asset.
- `GET /assets/:id/history` – view the creation, assignment and name change history of an asset.
- `GET /assets/assigned/:userId` – list assets assigned to a user.
- `GET /assets/unassigned` – list assets that are not assigned to anyone.
- `PATCH /assets/:id` – update asset `name` or `assignedTo`. Changes are logged in the asset's history.
- `DELETE /assets/:id` – remove an asset from inventory.
- `POST /assets/:id/depreciate` – mark an asset as depreciated.
- `GET /assets/depreciated` – list all depreciated assets.
- `POST /assets/:id/retire` – mark an asset as retired.
- `GET /assets/retired` – list all retired assets.
- `GET /assets/search?q=text` – search assets by name.
- `GET /assets/:id/maintenance` – view maintenance records for an asset.
- `POST /assets/:id/maintenance` – add a maintenance record with `description` and optional `cost`.
- `GET /assets/:id/maintenance/total-cost` – get the sum of all maintenance costs for an asset.
- `GET /assets/:id/maintenance/last` – get the most recent maintenance record for an asset.
- `GET /assets/:id/tags` – list tags for an asset.
- `POST /assets/:id/tags` – add one or more tags to an asset.
- `DELETE /assets/:id/tags/:tag` – remove a tag from an asset.
- `GET /stats` – basic counts of open, waiting and closed tickets plus asset total.
- `GET /stats/mttr` – average time to resolve closed tickets in hours.
- `GET /stats/workload` – ticket counts per user broken down by status.
- `GET /stats/priorities` – counts of tickets per priority.
- `GET /stats/tags` – counts of tickets per tag.
- `GET /stats/asset-tags` – counts of assets per tag.
- `GET /stats/assets-per-user` – counts of assets assigned to each user.
- `GET /stats/maintenance-cost` – total maintenance cost per asset.
- `GET /stats/comments` – number of comments per ticket.
- `GET /stats/overdue` – counts of overdue tickets per user.
- `GET /stats/forecast?days=N` – predicted ticket volume for the next N days.
- `GET /stats/dashboard` – aggregate counts, forecast and MTTR for the landing page.
- `GET /stats/user/:userId` – summary of ticket counts and assets for a user.

## Getting Started

1. Install dependencies (requires internet access):
   ```bash
   npm install
   ```
2. (Optional) build the TypeScript server:
   ```bash
   npm run build
   ```
3. Start the server:
   ```bash
   npm start
   ```
4. Run tests:
   ```bash
   npm test
   ```

### Database Setup

To migrate the sample data into a MSSQL database you can use the provided
migration script. Ensure your connection details are configured in a `.env`
file based on `.env.example` and run:

```bash
npm run migrate
```

This executes `migrate.js` which creates the tables defined in
`migrations/schema.sql` and populates them using `migrations/seed.sql`.

The Qdrant client script can be used separately to index ticket text. See
`docs/QDRANT_CLIENT.md` for details.

### Using a MSSQL Database

By default the server uses in-memory mock data. To fetch ticket data from an
actual MSSQL database set `USE_MSSQL=true` in your `.env` file along with the
standard `DB_*` connection settings. When enabled the `/tickets` and
`/tickets/:id` endpoints read from the `V_Ticket_Master_Expanded` view.

The n8n webhook URL can be configured via the `N8N_URL` environment variable.
The Qdrant server URL can be set with the `QDRANT_URL` environment variable.

After the first visit, the pages are cached for offline use via a service worker.
An experimental `realtime.html` page demonstrates live ticket notifications using the `/events` SSE endpoint.

### Authentication

Use `POST /auth/login` with `username` and `password` to obtain a JWT token.
Pass it using `Authorization: Bearer <token>` to `/auth/verify` to validate
the session.

### Frontend

A minimal React application is located in the `frontend` directory. Run
`npm install` and `npm run dev` from that folder to start it with Vite.
The landing page served from `public/index.html` now displays current ticket
counts, the average resolution time and a 7-day forecast fetched from the API.

### DevOps

A `Dockerfile` is provided for containerization and a GitHub Actions workflow
executes the test suite on each push.

## License

This project is licensed under the [MIT License](LICENSE).
